You may think of staking as a less resource-intensive alternative to mining. It involves holding funds in a cryptocurrency wallet to support the security and
operations of a blockchain network. Simply put, staking is the act of locking cryptocurrencies to receive rewards.

In most cases, you’ll be able to stake your coins directly from your crypto wallet, such as Meta Mask and Trust Wallet. On the other hand, many exchanges offer 
staking services to their users. 
 
To get a better grasp of what staking is, you’ll first need to understand how Proof of Stake (PoS) works. PoS is a consensus mechanism that allows blockchains to
operate more energy-efficiently while maintaining a decent degree of decentralization (at least, in theory). Let’s dive into what PoS is and how staking works.


What is Proof of Stake (PoS)?
If you know how Bitcoin works, you’re probably familiar with Proof of Work (PoW). It’s the mechanism that allows transactions to be gathered into blocks. Then,
these blocks are linked together to create the blockchain. More specifically, miners compete to solve a complex mathematical puzzle, and whoever solves it first
gets the right to add the next block to the blockchain.

Proof of Work has proven to be a very robust mechanism to facilitate consensus in a decentralized manner. The problem is, it involves a lot of arbitrary
computation. The puzzle the miners are competing to solve serves no purpose other than keeping the network secure. One could argue, this in itself makes this excess
of computation justifiable. At this point, you might be wondering: are there other ways to maintain decentralized consensus without the high computational cost?


Here is the Proof of Stake. The main idea is that participants can lock coins (their “stake”), and at particular intervals, the protocol randomly assigns the right
to one of them to validate the next block. Typically, the probability of being chosen is proportional to the amount of coins – the more coins locked up, the higher
the chances.


What is Delegated Proof of Stake (DPoS)?
An alternative version of this mechanism was developed in 2014 by Daniel Larimer called Delegated Proof of Stake (DPoS). It was first used as a part of the 
BitShares blockchain, but soon after, other networks adopted the model. These include Steem and EOS, which were also created by Larimer.


DPoS allows users to commit their coin balances as votes, where voting power is proportional to the number of coins held. These votes are then used to elect a
number of delegates who manage the blockchain on behalf of their voters, ensuring security and consensus. Typically, the staking rewards are distributed to these
elected delegates, who then distribute part of the rewards to their electors proportionally to their individual contributions.

The DPoS model allows for consensus to be achieved with a lower number of validating nodes. As such, it tends to enhance network performance. On the other hand, it
may also result in a lower degree of decentralization as the network relies on a small, select group of validating nodes. These validating nodes handle the 
operations and overall governance of the blockchain. They participate in the processes of reaching consensus and defining key governance parameters. Simply put,
DPoS allows users to signal their influence through other participants of the network.

How does staking work?
As we’ve discussed before, Proof of Work blockchains rely on mining to add new blocks to the blockchain. In contrast, Proof of Stake chains produce and
validate new blocks through the process of staking. Staking involves validators who lock up their coins so they can be randomly selected by the protocol
at specific intervals to create a block. Usually, participants that stake larger amounts have a higher chance of being chosen as the next block validator.

This allows for blocks to be produced without relying on specialized mining hardware, such as ASICs. While ASIC mining requires a significant investment in
hardware, staking requires a direct investment in the cryptocurrency itself. So, instead of competing for the next block with computational work, PoS 
validators are selected based on the number of coins they are staking. The “stake” (the coin holding) is what incentivizes validators to maintain 
network security. If they fail to do that, their entire stake might be at risk.

While each Proof of Stake blockchain has its particular staking currency, some networks adopt a two-token system where the rewards are paid in a 
second token.
On a very practical level, staking just means keeping funds in a suitable wallet. This enables essentially anyone to perform various network functions
in return for staking rewards. It may also include adding funds to a staking pool, which we’ll cover shortly.

How are staking rewards calculated?
There’s no short answer here. Each blockchain network may use a different way of calculating staking rewards.
Some are adjusted on a block-by-block basis, taking into account many different factors. These can include:
•	how many coins the validator is staking 
•	how long the validator has been actively staking
•	how many coins are staked on the network in total 
•	the inflation rate
•	other factors

For some other networks, staking rewards are determined as a fixed percentage. These rewards are distributed to validators as a sort of compensation 
for inflation. Inflation encourages users to spend their coins instead of holding them, which may increase their usage as  cryptocurrency. But with this model, 
validators can calculate exactly what staking reward they can expect.
A predictable reward schedule rather than a probabilistic chance of receiving a block reward may look favorable to some. And since this is public 
information, it might incentivize more participants to get involved in staking. 

What is a staking pool?
A staking pool is a group of coin holders merging their resources to increase their chances of validating blocks and receiving rewards. They combine
their staking power and share the rewards proportionally to their contributions to the pool.

Setting up and maintaining a staking pool often requires a lot of time and expertise. Staking pools tend to be the most effective on networks 
where the barrier of entry (technical or financial) is relatively high. As such, many pool providers charge a fee from the staking rewards that are 
distributed to participants.
Other than that, pools may provide additional flexibility for individual stakers. Typically, the stake has to be locked for a fixed period and 
usually has a withdrawal or unbinding time set by the protocol. What’s more, there’s almost certainly a substantial minimum balance 
required to stake to disincentivize malicious behavior.

Most staking pools require a low minimum balance and append no additional withdrawal times. As such, joining a staking pool instead of 
staking solo might be ideal for newer users.
What is cold staking?
Cold staking refers to the process of staking on a wallet that’s not connected to the Internet. This may be done using a hardware wallet, 
but it’s also possible with an air-gapped software wallet.
Networks that support cold staking allow users to stake while securely holding their funds offline. It’s worth noting that if the stakeholder 
moves their coins out of cold storage, they’ll stop receiving rewards.
Cold staking is particularly useful for large stakeholders who want to ensure maximum protection of their funds while supporting the network.

