Yield farming, also referred to as liquidity mining, is a way to generate rewards with cryptocurrency holdings. In simple terms, it means locking up
cryptocurrencies and getting rewards. In some sense, yield farming can be paralleled with staking. However, there’s a lot of complexity going on in 
the background. In many cases, it works with users called liquidity providers (LP) that add funds to liquidity pools.

Some liquidity pools pay their rewards in multiple tokens. Those reward tokens then may be deposited to other liquidity pools to earn rewards there, 
and so on. You can already see how incredibly complex strategies can emerge quite quickly. But the basic idea is that a liquidity provider deposits 
funds into a liquidity pool and earns rewards in return.

Yield farming is typically done using ERC-20 tokens on Ethereum, and the rewards are usually also a type of ERC-20 token. This, however, may change 
in the future. Why? For now, much of this activity is happening in the Ethereum ecosystem. 

However, cross-chain bridges and other similar advancements may allow DeFi applications to become blockchain-agnostic in the future. This means that 
they could run on other blockchains that also support smart contract capabilities.

Yield farmers will typically move their funds around quite a lot between different protocols in search of high yields. As a result, DeFi platforms 
may also provide other economic incentives to attract more capital to their platform. 

Just like on centralized exchanges, liquidity tends to attract more liquidity.
What is Total Value Locked (TVL)?
So, what’s a good way to measure the overall health of the DeFi yield farming scene? Total Value Locked (TVL). It measures how much crypto is locked 
in DeFi lending and other types of money marketplaces.

In some sense, TVL is the aggregate liquidity in liquidity pools. It’s a useful index to measure the health of the DeFi and yield farming market as a 
whole. It’s also an effective metric to compare the “market share” of different DeFi protocols.

A good place to track TVL is DeFi Pulse. You can check which platforms have the highest amount of ETH or other crypto assets locked in DeFi. 
This can give you a general idea about the current state of yield farming.

Naturally, the more value is locked, the more yield farming may be going on. It’s worth noting that you can measure TVL in ETH, USD, or even BTC. 
Each will give you a different outlook for the state of the DeFi money markets.
How does yield farming work?
Yield farming is closely related to a model called automated market maker (AMM). It typically involves liquidity providers (LPs) and liquidity pools. 
Let’s see how it works.
Liquidity providers deposit funds into a liquidity pool. This pool powers a marketplace where users can lend, borrow, or exchange tokens. The usage of 
these platforms incurs fees, which are then paid out to liquidity providers according to their share of the liquidity pool. This is the foundation of 
how an AMM works.
However, the implementations can be vastly different – not to mention that this is a new technology. It’s beyond doubt that we’re going to see new 
approaches that improve upon the current implementations.
On top of fees, another incentive to add funds to a liquidity pool could be the distribution of a new token. For example, there may not be a way to 
buy a token on the open market, only in small amounts. On the other hand, it may be accumulated by providing liquidity to a specific pool. 
The rules of distribution will all depend on the unique implementation of the protocol. The bottom line is that liquidity providers get a return 
based on the amount of liquidity they are providing to the pool.
The funds deposited are commonly stable coins pegged to the USD – though this isn’t a general requirement. Some of the most common stable coins 
used in DeFi are DAI, USDT, USDC, BUSD, and others. Some protocols will mint tokens that represent your deposited coins in the system. For example, 
if you deposit DAI into Compound, you’ll get cDAI, or Compound DAI. If you deposit ETH to Compound, you’ll get cETH.

As you can imagine, there can be many layers of complexity to this. You could deposit your cDAI to another protocol that mints a third token to 
represent your cDAI that represents your DAI. And so on, and so on. These chains can become really complex and hard to follow.

How are yield farming returns calculated?
Typically, the estimated yield farming returns are calculated annualized. This estimates the returns that you could expect over the course of a year.
Some commonly used metrics are Annual Percentage Rate (APR) and Annual Percentage Yield (APY). The difference between them is that APR doesn’t take 
into account the effect of compounding, while APY does. Compounding, in this case, means directly reinvesting profits to generate more returns. 
However, be aware that APR and APY may be used interchangeably.
It’s also worth keeping in mind that these are only estimations and projections. Even short-terms rewards are quite difficult to estimate accurately. 
Why? Yield farming is a highly competitive and fast-paced market, and the rewards can fluctuate rapidly. If a yield farming strategy works for a while, 
many farmers will jump on the opportunity, and it may stop yielding high returns. 
As APR and APY come from the legacy markets, DeFi may need to find its own metrics for calculating returns. Due to the fast pace of DeFi, weekly or 
even daily estimated returns may make more sense.
What is collateralization in DeFi?
Typically, if you’re borrowing assets, you need to put up collateral to cover your loan. This essentially acts as insurance for your loan. How is 
this relevant? This depends on what protocol you’re supplying your funds to, but you may need to keep a close eye on your collateralization ratio. 

If your collateral’s value falls below the threshold required by the protocol, your collateral may be liquidated on the open market. What can you do 
to avoid liquidation? You can add more collateral.
To reiterate, each platform will have its own set of rules for this, i.e., their own required collateralization ratio. In addition, they commonly 
work with a concept called overcollateralization. This means that borrowers have to deposit more value than they want to borrow. Why? To reduce 
the risk of violent market crashes liquidating a large amount of collateral in the system.
So, let’s say that the lending protocol you’re using requires a collateralization ratio of 200%. This means that for every 100 USD of value you 
put in, you can borrow 50 USD. However, it’s usually safer to add more collateral than required to reduce liquidation risk even more. With that 
said, many systems will use very high collateralization ratios (such as 750%) to keep the entire platform relatively safe from liquidation risk.

